# Take notes on mobile phones

This #recipe offers solutions to taking Foam notes on the go.

For the time being we have decided to not build a mobile app, but rely on third parties (see [[build-vs-assemble]]).

The most promising options are:

### [GitJournal](https://gitjournal.io/)

Pros
- Open source
- Already a usable solution.
- Provides functionality to edit, create, and browser markdown files.
- Support journal mode, todo lists, and free writing
- Syncs to GitHub repo
- Supports Wiki Links
- Supports Backlinks
- Developer is happy to prioritize Foam compatibility

Cons
- Doesn't generate link reference lists (but this is ok, since [[workspace-janitor]] as a GitHub action can solve this)
- Not as sleek as Apple/Google notes, some keyboard state glitching on Android, etc.
- Lack of control over roadmap. Established product with a paid plan, so may not be open to Foam-supportive changes and additions that don't benefit most users.

Verdict: Good. By far best effort/outcome ratio would be to help improve GitJournal rather than building a [bespoke mobile app](#bespoke-mobile-app-for-foam).

### GitHub Codespaces

Pros
- Works out of the box just like the desktop app

Cons
- not generally available quite yet
- [Pricing](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/developing-online-with-codespaces/about-billing-for-codespaces)

For a quick demo, see https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KI5m4Uy8_4I.

Verdict: Good. Pricing should be reasonable for taking notes on the fly. Harder to assess for people who would constantly use Foam from mobile phone.

## Bespoke mobile app for Foam

Given we already have a solution, why would we spend time and effort building a bespoke mobile app?

- Taking notes on the go is a key part of a good note taking process, and the process should feel effortless
- Having a custom app could help us support key user workflows in a more Foam-specific manner

If such an app was worth building, it would have to have the following features:

- Instant loading and syncing for quick notes
- Sleek, simple, beautifully designed user experience.
- Ability to search and navigate forward links and back links (onlly in paid GitJournal version)
- Killer feature that makes it the best note taking tool for Foam (?)

Given the effort vs reward ratio, it's a low priority for core team, but if someone wants to work on this, we can provide support! Talk to us on the #mobile-apps channel on [Foam Discord](https://foambubble.github.io/join-discord/w).


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[build-vs-assemble]: ../dev/build-vs-assemble.md "Build vs Assemble"
[workspace-janitor]: ../features/workspace-janitor.md "Janitor"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
