# Inbox

Uncategorised thoughts

- Release notes
- Automatic updates
- Foam as a (VS Code) language
  - Syntax highlighting
  - Autocompletion
    - Get rid of mediawiki links in favor of write time tooling
  - Snippets
- Future architecture
  - Could we do publish-related settings as a pre-push git hook, e.g. generating footnote labels
  - Running them on Github Actions to edit stuff as it comes in
    - Ideally, we shouldn't have to touch files, should be just markdown
- Looking at the errors/warnings/output panes makes me think, what kind of automated quality tools could we write.
  - Deduplication, finding similarities...
  - Thought Debugger?
  - Knowledge Debugger?
  - Janitor? Gardener?
  - Foam Compiler?
- Should support Netlify deploys out of the box
- Foam should tick at the same frequency as your brain, and the Foam graph you build should match the mental model you have in your head, making navigation effortless.
  - Maps have persistent topologies. As the graph grows, you should be able to visualise where an idea belongs. Maybe a literal map? And island? A DeckGL visualisation?
- Write about the history and process of Foam
  - In ways, Wallet was the first iteration of Foam-like environment
- Should we support directories?
  - Some tools might get more complicated to build
  - The pressure to categorize and create hierachies can become distracting
  - Is there value in folderizing?
  - Use case: Writing docs in a codebase

Testing: This file is served from the /docs directory.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[roadmap]: roadmap "Roadmap"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
