# Workspace Janitor

## What is it?

To store your personal knowledge graph in markdown files instead of a database, we need some additional tooling to create and maintain:

- Relationships between notes
  - link references for [[wiki-links]]/markdown compatibility
  - [[materialized-backlinks]]
  - etc.
- Format and structure of each note (e.g. title)
- Renaming and refactoring files and directories

This is necessary:
  
- When migrating to Foam
- To maintain your workspace health over long period of time

## Problem

Currently, the VS Code extension is very naive, and only updates the currently active editor. This isn't sufficient, because:

- For e.g. [[materialized-backlinks]] to work, files need to update in the background.
- If VS Code extension bugs our or is not ran, the workspace can lead in an inconsistent state
- In collaboration scenarios, two people may change the same file, causing incomplete updates
- If someone pushes changes from outside VS Code (Obsidian, Git Journal, etc.) links aren't updated
  
## Proposal

Implement a note janitor (working title, named after Andy Matuschak's [note-link-janitor](https://github.com/andymatuschak/note-link-janitor)), which ensures all files are correctly linked and updated, no matter how changes happen.

Janitor should be runnable:
- From VS Code
  - Replaces the existing logic in extension.ts
  - In theory, we could do this using the [VS Code Tasks](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/tasks), exposing it from foam-vscode with a [TaskProvider](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/extension-guides/task-provider)
  - It's not clear to me whether modifying the file in the active VS Code buffer from a background task is problematic for e.g. focus/selection management. I think this is how e.g. Prettier works, but not sure if there's some special case for the active editor.
  - VS Code provides its own workspace watching functionality. Not sure it would be beneficial to use this over just chokidar-style file watching in the background
- As a pre-push Git Hook (is this a good idea?) to ensure we send fully formed note graphs, even if you had to do some editing outside vs code
- As a GitHub Action (for incoming changes via PRs and other apps like GitJournal)
- As a NPM script/dependency for any other purpose

## Software architecture

- It's not really clear to me whether the workspace janitor should be its own package, or if the Janitor should just be the [[cli]] package, or the [[foam-core]] package.
- Ideally the janitor should be lightweight so installing it on CI is quick
- It would be cool if it didn't have many weird node-specific dependencies, maybe it could be even ran INSIDE a mobile application?
- We don't want to pollute foam-core, but janitor might actually get quite diverse in use cases.

Decoupling things like the core janitor API from the CLI API would help potentially with situations where we might want to have a separate file watcher strategy for CLI and active VS Code workspaces (see above).

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[todo]: todo "Todo"
[roadmap]: roadmap "Roadmap"
[materialized-backlinks]: materialized-backlinks "Materialized Backlinks (stub)"
[wiki-links]: wiki-links "Wiki Links"
[cli]: cli "Command Line Interface"
[foam-core]: foam-core "Foam Core"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
