# Mobile Apps

We must always ask ourselves, [[build-vs-assemble]]. 

This Roadmap item discusses existing assembled solutions, and some thoughts on future Foam mobile experience.

## Existing solutions

### [GitJournal](https://gitjournal.io/)

#### Pros
- Open source
- Already a usable solution. 
- Provides functionality to edit, create, and browser markdown files.
- Support journal mode, todo lists, and free writing
- Syncs to GitHub repo

#### Cons
- Doesn't support [[wiki-links]] **(deal breaker, but support [coming soon](https://twitter.com/GitJournal_io/status/1280194357296062466))**
- Doesn't generate link reference lists (but this is ok, since [[workspace-janitor]] as a GitHub action can solve this)
- Not as sleek as Apple/Google notes, some keyboard state glitching on Android, etc.
- Lack of control over roadmap. Established product with a paid plan, so may not be open to Foam-supportive changes and additions that don't benefit most users.

Verdict: Good. By far best effort/outcome ratio would be to help improve GitJournal rather than building a [bespoke mobile app](#bespoke-mobile-app-for-foam).

## Bespoke mobile app for Foam

Given we already have a solution, why would we spend time and effort building a bespoke mobile app?

- Taking notes on the go is a key part of a good note taking process, and the process should feel effortless
- Having a custom app could help us support key user workflows in a more Foam-specific manner

If such an app was worth building, it would have to have the following features:

- Instant loading and syncing for quick notes
- Sleek, simple, beautifully designed user experience.
- Ability to search and navigate forward links and back links (onlly in paid GitJournal version)
- Killer feature that makes it the best note taking tool for Foam (?)

Given the effort vs reward ratio, it's a low priority for core team, but if someone wants to work on this, we can provide support! Talk to us on the #mobile-apps channel on [Foam Discord](https://discord.gg/rtdZKgj).


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[build-vs-assemble]: build-vs-assemble "Build vs Assemble"
[wiki-links]: wiki-links "Wiki Links"
[workspace-janitor]: workspace-janitor "Janitor"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"